## Email and Password Reset
___
-  Django has inbuilt functionality to generate a token and ensure that the authorized user can reset the password.
- In project's URLS.py we are going to add some more views.
- There is a *PasswordResetView* that is built into the *auth_views*.
- The url path looked as follows: 
```python
''' -------project->URLS.py-----'''
  path('password-reset/', 
        auth_views.PasswordResetView.as_view(template_name='users/password_reset.html'), 
        name='password_reset'),
```
- This will be the route that will provide user the form which they can fill out to reset the password. They will get the password reset instruction in their email.

___
- In users ```templates->user``` we are going to create a *password_reset.html* template. In *password_reset.html* we are going to have a form to submit a password reset request.
- Also we must create a template for after this form has been submitted successfully. This will be the route that says that the email has been sent and tells you to check your inbox.
___

- Again define a new route to display that the password reset form is submitted successfully in url module. The built in view is ``` PasswordResetDone ```. 
- Our path in the URL will look like the following snippet.

```python
path('password-reset/done/', 
        auth_views.PasswordResetDoneView.as_view(template_name='users/password_reset_done.html'), 
        name='password_reset_done'),
```
- Now let us create a template by the name password_reset_done.html.
- This much is still not enough. Django by default redirects to password_reset_confirm.html. So we have to manage our url and template for that file. Therefore our URL got the following path added:
```python

path('password-reset-confirm/<uidb64>/<token>', 
        auth_views.PasswordResetConfirmView.as_view(template_name='users/password_reset_confirm.html'), 
        name='password_reset_confirm'),

```
- Also we create a password_reset_confirm.html template.
_ Note the anomaly in route. Django expect user id as base64 encryption and a password as an encrypted token in order to reset a password.

___
- Still we have another error. We need to set up an email server to send an email. We are going to use gmail for this purpose. We can also use localhost. 
- To do this with gmail, we have to let google know to expect sign ins from a python application. 
- Visit this site [Google Support Forum](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185833?hl=en)

- Now add some lines in setting.py:
```python

EMAIL_BACKEND = 'django.core.mail.backend.smtp.EmailBackend'
EMAIL_HOST = 'smtp.gmail.com'
EMAIL_PORT = 587
EMAIL_USE_TLS = True
EMAIL_HOST_USER = os.environ.get('EMAIL_USER')
EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD = os.environ.get('EMAIL_PASS')

```
- About environment variable, watch this video : [setting enivornment variable for username and password by corey](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IolxqkL7cD8)

- After you set up google account you will get an app password. And you must copy that password and paste it in the environment variable. And you must not write the account password in the environment variable. 

- Now you can reset only those account whose email is loaded in the settings.py via environment variable. 
- Still our work is not finished. There is still a single route remaining to be set. 
